{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 What Are Data Centers?
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Data centers are large facilities that store and manage the data that powers digital services such as cloud computing, social media, and artificial intelligence. They contain thousands of servers running constantly to process information and deliver it quickly across the internet.\

\f0\b Environmental Burden
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Data centers use huge amounts of electricity and water. In 2023, U.S. data centers consumed about 176 terawatt-hours of electricity\'97around 4% of total national power use\'97and that share is expected to rise. Cooling systems often account for more than 40% of their energy use and can require millions of gallons of water each year. Many data centers still rely on fossil fuels, producing greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutants. The construction of large facilities also replaces farmland or green areas with industrial buildings, increasing noise, traffic, and heat.\

\f0\b Policy Response
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Local and state governments are creating policies to manage these effects. Some cities have updated zoning codes to limit where data centers can be built and to control noise and water use. Others require annual reporting of electricity and water consumption to promote transparency. Certain communities tie tax incentives to benefits such as renewable energy investment, workforce training, and green infrastructure projects. These actions help balance economic growth with sustainability and public health.\

\f0\b Community Voice
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Residents near data centers have raised concerns about noise, higher energy costs, and environmental impacts. Many communities are pushing for public hearings, stricter environmental standards, and agreements that require developers to contribute to local projects. Activists advocate for better transparency, renewable energy use, and investment in community resources like parks and education programs.\

\f0\b Summary
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 Data centers are essential for the digital economy but come with significant local impacts. With thoughtful policy and active community involvement, cities can encourage responsible development that supports innovation while protecting the environment and the well-being of nearby residents.\
}
